# Optimal-Trading-Execution
An analysis of optimal trading execution using Q-learning in the presence of market impact of limit and market orders

This is part of my master thesis in which I make an attempt to solve the optimized trade execution problem with the application of reinforcement learning, particularly Q-learning. For institutional investors, many trading strategies appear to be profitable and in fact are not due to large execution costs. To reduce the trading exection costs, it is a common practice to split the large parent order into the child orders which are executed subsequently. However, there are many limitations in both practice and the literature regarding selection of order type (market vs. limit order), volume of child orders, trading frequency and impacts caused by limit and market orders. In this project, I try to overcome those limitations by including both market and limit orders in the optimal strategies, allowing a variety of volumes for each child order and accounting for the price impacts of both limit and market orders into Q-learning algorithm. Market orders target immediate consumption of available liquidity but incur the bid-ask spread while limit orders incur no spread cost but bear the risk of being unfilled. Placing a large order or consecutive small orders regardless of order type may reveal trading intention and therefore adversely 
affect stock prices (Engle and Patton, 2004). While trades have been rigorously found in the literature to incur an impact on the market, limit order placement may also create adverse price movement.

## Subheader
Test 2